It's not just the people in your
Data Science team that will want to
use data and interact with data.
So part of your role as
Data Science manager, or
a Data Science executive is
teaching people how to use data or
empowering people to use
data within an organization.
So one of the ways in which to do that
is through Data Science training.
So there's a number of different
ways that you can do this.
One is pointing people to resources,
collecting and
curating resources that
are available online.
Whether that's online classes or online
materials related to sorts of things that
they might wanna be able to do.
It might be writing those
tutorials yourself, so
that people can interact with
the data themselves directly.
Another really useful way is to have
internal talks that are available to
everybody to go to if they want to.
Where the Data Science team communicates.
How do you pull data out of the database?
How do you make plots?
How do you visualize data
in a way that's compelling?
How do you do machine learning?
Or what is machine learning?
Those internal talks are really useful
if they can also communicate what
the internal capabilities are.
One thing that's very difficult about Data
Science teams is that every Data Science
team had different capabilities.
Depending on the people that are there,
how subscribed their activities are,
how difficult it is to do the problems.
And so communicating what's possible and
what's not possible in a way that's sort
of unbiased to the whole
organization often spurs new ideas.
New ways to take advantage of the Data
Science team to solve new problems
that people care about.
So you can either have sort
of training sessions or
sort of informational sessions about
how the Data Science team works.
Those are both really useful ways
to empower people to approach
the Data Science team and work with them.
Another way is to build documents or
build tools or
build products that can be
shared with other people.
Who don't necessarily have Data Science or
Data Engineering training, but
would like to interact with the data.
So one common example
is sort of a dashboard,
sort of a set of visualizations or
set of plots.
That are built, so that somebody
can click on some buttons and
interact with that visualization.
They can ask their own questions,
have their own hypothesis and
interact with the data.
Even if it's just a subset of the data.
Another way is just one interactive
visualization can be really compelling,
can be a way for
people to sort of interact with the data,
ask one specific question.
And sort of see how their choices work.
So here the key is,
there's a design element to it.
It's how are you going to
design your interface so
that people can interact with the data.
They can ask their own questions.
But they're not intimidated by syntax or
knowing how to actually do the stuff.
With the low-level programming
languages that you or
your Data Science team might know about.
So in addition to training,
there's these sort of ways to directly
connect people to the data themselves.
Ideally, you can automate this.
So a lot of report writing tools,
whether they're in sort of high Python
notebooks or shiny documents or so
forth, can be sort of auto-generated.
You can also setup a dashboard that
does an auto-pull from your database,
that always has the latest and
freshest data available to people.
If you can automate it in that way,
the most common questions can be
answered by people other
than the Data Science team.
Which leads them to innovate and
to focus on new ideas and
new things that they can do well.
Or to shore up the infrastructure for this
sort of Data Science processes that you
already have going on
in your organization.
The other thing that can be really useful
as a way to have people sort of interact
with the Data Science team is with
Data Science idea evaluation.
So often people will have ideas about
ways they think they might be able to
use data that solve a particular
problem or another.
But it turns out that sometimes
those are impossible.
We don't have the right data or we don't
have the imaginary infrastructure,
we don't have the right scale to
be able to solve that problem.
But it's still really nice if you
can provide a way or a format or
a forum where people can propose ideas
that they'd like to do with the data and
get critical, but
positive feedback on those ideas.
You don't wanna immediately crush
any idea that somebody brings up.
You'll never hear another idea again.
But it is a good idea to sort of,
that helps tune expectations.
What can we actually do with
the datasets that we have?
Especially, if someone else
is proposing the ideas and
you are sort of letting them know.
Yes, we can do that.
No, we can't do that.
Yes, we can do that, but
it would take a whole new
infrastructure on the server side.
Yes, we can do that, but
it would require us to develop a whole
new machine learning infrastructure here.
That gives people an idea about what's
going on with the Data Science team.
What can you actually do, what are the
parameters that makes it useful for you.
And so you can do peer review of
these ideas from the data team and
from yourself as another way to
interact with the organization.
But in general,
the idea is as often as possible drawing
other people into
the Data Science process.
Often that requires a little bit of
education and that education can feel like
wasted time if you're not thinking
about it in the right way.
But if you think about it as
an investment in the future Data Science
capabilities of your organization.
It can be a really positive, really value
compounding way of doing data science.